# 来自stackoverflow的一个帖子
- [原网址](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1711/what-is-the-single-most-influential-book-every-programmer-should-read)

1. Code Complete (2nd edition) by Steve McConnell
2. The Pragmatic Programmer
3. Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs
4. The C Programming Language by Kernighan and Ritchie
5. Introduction to Algorithms by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest & Stein
6. Design Patterns by the Gang of Four
7. Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code
8. The Mythical Man Month
9. The Art of Computer Programming by Donald Knuth
10. Compilers: Principles, Techniques and Tools by Alfred V. Aho, Ravi Sethi and Jeffrey D. Ullman
11. Gödel, Escher, Bach by Douglas Hofstadter
12. Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship by Robert C. Martin
13. Effective C++
14. More Effective C++
15. CODE by Charles Petzold
16. Programming Pearls by Jon Bentley
17. Working Effectively with Legacy Code by Michael C. Feathers
18. Peopleware by Demarco and Lister
19. Coders at Work by Peter Seibel
20. Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!
21. Effective Java 2nd edition
22. Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture by Martin Fowler
23. The Little Schemer
24. The Seasoned Schemer
25. Why's (Poignant) Guide to Ruby
26. The Inmates Are Running The Asylum: Why High Tech Products Drive Us Crazy and How to Restore the Sanity
27. The Art of Unix Programming
28. Test-Driven Development: By Example by Kent Beck
29. Practices of an Agile Developer
30. Don't Make Me Think
31. Agile Software Development, Principles, Patterns, and Practices by Robert C. Martin
32. Domain Driven Designs by Eric Evans
33. The Design of Everyday Things by Donald Norman
34. Modern C++ Design by Andrei Alexandrescu
35. Best Software Writing I by Joel Spolsky
36. The Practice of Programming by Kernighan and Pike
37. Pragmatic Thinking and Learning: Refactor Your Wetware by Andy Hunt
38. Software Estimation: Demystifying the Black Art by Steve McConnel
39. The Passionate Programmer (My Job Went To India) by Chad Fowler
40. Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution
41. Algorithms + Data Structures = Programs
42. Writing Solid Code
43. JavaScript - The Good Parts
44. Getting Real by 37 Signals
45. Foundations of Programming by Karl Seguin
46. Computer Graphics: Principles and Practice in C (2nd Edition)
47. Thinking in Java by Bruce Eckel
48. The Elements of Computing Systems
49. Refactoring to Patterns by Joshua Kerievsky
50. Modern Operating Systems by Andrew S. Tanenbaum
51. The Annotated Turing
52. Things That Make Us Smart by Donald Norman
53. The Timeless Way of Building by Christopher Alexander
54. The Deadline: A Novel About Project Management by Tom DeMarco
55. The C++ Programming Language (3rd edition) by Stroustrup
56. Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture
57. Computer Systems - A Programmer's Perspective
58. Agile Principles, Patterns, and Practices in C# by Robert C. Martin
59. Growing Object-Oriented Software, Guided by Tests
60. Framework Design Guidelines by Brad Abrams
61. Object Thinking by Dr. David West
62. Advanced Programming in the UNIX Environment by W. Richard Stevens
63. Hackers and Painters: Big Ideas from the Computer Age
64. The Soul of a New Machine by Tracy Kidder
65. CLR via C# by Jeffrey Richter
66. The Timeless Way of Building by Christopher Alexander
67. Design Patterns in C# by Steve Metsker
68. Alice in Wonderland by Lewis Carol
68. Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance by Robert M. Pirsig
69. About Face - The Essentials of Interaction Design
70. Here Comes Everybody: The Power of Organizing Without Organizations by Clay Shirky
71. The Tao of Programming
72. Computational Beauty of Nature
73. Writing Solid Code by Steve Maguire
74. Philip and Alex's Guide to Web Publishing
75. Object-Oriented Analysis and Design with Applications by Grady Booch
76. Effective Java by Joshua Bloch
77. Computability by N. J. Cutland
78. Masterminds of Programming
79. The Tao Te Ching
80. The Productive Programmer
81. The Art of Deception by Kevin Mitnick
82. The Career Programmer: Guerilla Tactics for an Imperfect World by Christopher Duncan
83. Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence Programming: Case studies in Common Lisp
84. Masters of Doom
85. Pragmatic Unit Testing in C# with NUnit by Andy Hunt and Dave Thomas with Matt Hargett
86. How To Solve It by George Polya
87. The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho
88. Smalltalk-80: The Language and its Implementation
89. Writing Secure Code (2nd Edition) by Michael Howard
90. Introduction to Functional Programming by Philip Wadler and Richard Bird
91. No Bugs! by David Thielen
92. Rework by Jason Freid and DHH
93. JUnit in Action
